Webassembly on kubernetes with rust (#1036)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-01-12-webassembly-on-kubernetes-with-rust.md

# Run WebAssembly workloads on Kubernetes with Krustlet

Today, you will use Krustlet to run a Wasm workload written in Rust on Kubernetes.

**Prerequisites**

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation) or another local kubernetes distribution
- [Rust toolkit](https://www.rust-lang.org/learn/get-started) (Includes rustup, rustc, and cargo)

## Preparing the cluster

First, you need to prepare a cluster and install Krustlet on the cluster to run WebAssembly on it. I'm using [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) to run a local Kubernetes cluster, you can also use [MiniKube](https://docs.krustlet.dev/howto/krustlet-on-minikube/), [MicroK8s](https://docs.krustlet.dev/howto/krustlet-on-microk8s/), or [another Kubernetes distribution](https://docs.krustlet.dev/intro/quickstart/).

The first step is to create a cluster with the below command:

```bash
kind create cluster
```

> Now you need to bootstrap Krustlet, and you will need `kubectl` installed and a kubeconfig that has access to create `Secrets` in the `kube-system` namespace and can approve `CertificateSigningRequests`. You can use the [handy script](https://github.com/krustlet/krustlet/tree/main/scripts) from Krustlet to do this. So download the appropriate script for your OS and run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you need to bootstrap Krustlet, and you will need `kubectl` installed and a kubeconfig that has access to create `Secrets` in the `kube-system` namespace and can approve `CertificateSigningRequests`. You can use this [handy script](https://github.com/krustlet/krustlet/tree/main/scripts) from Krustlet to download and run the appropriate setup script for your OS:
```

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/krustlet/krustlet/main/scripts/bootstrap.sh | /bin/bash
```

Now you can install and run Krustlet.

Download a binary release from the [release page](https://github.com/krustlet/krustlet/releases) and run it. I'm using the Linux version.

```bash
# Download for Linux
curl -O https://krustlet.blob.core.windows.net/releases/krustlet-v1.0.0-alpha.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xzf krustlet-v1.0.0-alpha.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz
# Install
KUBECONFIG=~/.krustlet/config/kubeconfig \
  ./krustlet-wasi \
  --node-ip=172.17.0.1 \
  --node-name=krustlet \
  --bootstrap-file=${HOME}/.krustlet/config/bootstrap.conf
```

> **Note**: If you use Docker for Mac, the node-ip would be different. Follow [the instructions from the Krustlet docs](https://docs.krustlet.dev/howto/krustlet-on-kind/#special-note-docker-desktop-for-mac) to figure out the IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you use Docker for Mac, the node-ip would be different. Follow [the instructions from the Krustlet docs](https://docs.krustlet.dev/howto/krustlet-on-kind/#special-note-docker-desktop-for-mac) to figure out the IP. If you get the error "krustlet-wasi cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified", you can allow it with the `allow anyway` button found at `System Preferences` / `Security & Privacy` / `General`.
```

Reviewer: FWIW I had to do the same thing again later in order to run the wasm-to-oci binary

Author: Thanks I didn't know this. Was it a Mac system preferences or docker for mac system preferences?

```bash
cargo build --release --target wasm32-wasi
```

That's it. You have successfully created a WebAssembly binary using Rust.

## Run the workload in Kubernetes

<!--
Let's run the workload locally using wasmtime, a small JIT-style runtime for Wasm and WASI. Install it using the below command.

```bash
curl https://wasmtime.dev/install.sh -sSf | bash
``` -->

Before you can run the workload in Kubernetes, you need to push the binary to a registry that supports OCI artifacts. OCI complaint registries can be used for any OCI artifact, including Docker images, Wasm binaries, and so on. Docker Hub currently does not support OCI artifacts; hence you can use another registry like [GitHub Package Registry](https://github.com/features/packages), [Azure Container Registry](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/services/container-registry/) or [Google Artifact Registry](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry). I'll be using GitHub Package Registry as it's the simplest to get started, and most of you might already have a GitHub account.

> First, you need to log in to GitHub Package Registry using `docker login`. Create a [personal access token on GitHub](https://github.com/settings/tokens) and use that to log in to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to log in to GitHub Package Registry using `docker login`. Create a [personal access token on GitHub](https://github.com/settings/tokens) with the `write:packages` scope and use that to log in to the registry.
```

Author: Ah totally missed to mention it

```bash
export CR_PAT=<your-token>
echo $CR_PAT | docker login ghcr.io -u <Your GitHub username> --password-stdin
```

> Now you need to push your Wasm binary as an OCI artifact; for this, you can use the [wasm-to-oci](https://github.com/engineerd/wasm-to-oci) CLI. Use the below command to install it on your machine. I'm using the Linux version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you need to push your Wasm binary as an OCI artifact; for this, you can use the [wasm-to-oci](https://github.com/engineerd/wasm-to-oci/releases) CLI. Use the below command to install it on your machine. I'm using the Linux version.
```

```bash
curl -LO https://github.com/engineerd/wasm-to-oci/releases/download/v0.1.2/linux-amd64-wasm-to-oci
mv linux-amd64-wasm-to-oci ~/bin/wasm-to-oci # move to any location that is added to your PATH variable
```

Now you can push the binary you built earlier to the GitHub Package Registry. Run the below command from the `rust-wasm` folder.

```bash
wasm-to-oci push target/wasm32-wasi/release/rust-wasm.wasm ghcr.io/<your GitHub user>/rust-wasm:latest
```

You should see a successful message. Now check your GitHub packages page on your profile, and you should see the artifact listed.

{% img blog/webassembly-on-kubernetes-with-rust/gchr_repo.png alt:"GitHub Packages Registry" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

By default, the artifact would be private, but you need to make it public so that you can access it from the Krustlet cluster. Click the package name and click the **Package settings** button, scroll down, click **Change visibility**, and change to **public**.

You can check this by pulling the artifact using the below command:

```bash

> ghcr.io/<your GitHub user>/rust-wasm:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wasm-to-oci pull ghcr.io/<your GitHub user>/rust-wasm:latest
```

Author: Oops I think I forgot to finish the command
